doc/data.adoc, before:

= Data Loading
Author Nicolas Piganeau
:prewrap!:
:toc:

== Introduction
In many cases, it is necessary to include configuration data into the database
just for the logic to work. In order to manage the configuration of this data,
the YEP framework provides a way to load data through the use of CSV files.

== CSV Files
All files that will be put in the `data` subdirectory of a module will be
automatically loaded in the database following these rules:

- The name of the CSV file must be the name of a model defined in the framework
either in this module or in dependencies of this module.
- The header line of the CSV defines the field names either as their real name
or their column (JSON) name.
- Each line is a record, with the values for each field.
- If an `ID` column is defined, it must be populated with a unique string for
each record known as its "external ID". If it is not defined, the framework
will provide one for each record.
- Foreign key fields must be set with the related record external ID
- Many-to-Many fields must be set with a `|` separated list of external IDs
- If a record with the given external ID already exists, then the line is
silently discarded, unless the CSV file name is postponed with `_update` such
as `Model_update.csv`. In this case, the existing value is overridden by the
value in the file.

== Examples

[source,csv]
.User.csv
----
ID,Name,Nums,IsStaff,Size
peter_id,Peter,1,true,1.78
mary_id,Mary,3,false,1.59
nick_id_3,Nick,8,true,1.85
----
.Tag_update.csv
----
ID,Name
tag_book,Book
tag_app,Application
tag_film,Film
tag_music,Music
----
.Post.csv
----
ID,User,Title,Content,Tags
post_id_1,peter_id,Peter's Post,This is peter's post content,tag_book|tag_film
post_id_2,nick_id,Nick's Post,No content,tag_book|tag_music|tag_app
----

Commit message:

Added version support to data files

doc/data.adoc, after:

= Data Loading
Author Nicolas Piganeau
:prewrap!:
:toc:

== Introduction
In many cases, it is necessary to include configuration data into the database
just for the logic to work. In order to manage the configuration of this data,
the YEP framework provides a way to load data through the use of CSV files.

== CSV Files
All files that will be put in the `data` subdirectory of a module will be
automatically loaded in the database following these rules:

- The name of the CSV file must be the name of a model defined in the framework
either in this module or in dependencies of this module.
- The header line of the CSV defines the field names either as their real name
or their column (JSON) name.
- Each line is a record, with the values for each field.
- If an `ID` column is defined, it must be populated with a unique string for
each record known as its "external ID". If it is not defined, the framework
will provide one for each record.
- Foreign key fields must be set with the related record external ID
- Many-to-Many fields must be set with a `|` separated list of external IDs

== Versions
Versions of data can be handled through the name of the CSV file.

- By default, if a record with the given external ID already exists, then the
line is silently discarded.
- If the CSV file name is postponed with `_` and a version number such as
`Model_3.csv`, a record with an existing external ID will be overridden only if
the version number of the file is above the version of the record in the
database. Records with non existing external ID will be inserted with the
version of the file name.
- If the CSV file name is postponed with `_update` such as `Model_update.csv`,
records with existing IDs are all overridden by the records in the file, and
their version number in the database is reset to 0.

== Examples

[source,csv]
.User.csv
----
ID,Name,Nums,IsStaff,Size
peter_id,Peter,1,true,1.78
mary_id,Mary,3,false,1.59
nick_id_3,Nick,8,true,1.85
----
.Tag_update.csv
----
ID,Name
tag_book,Book
tag_app,Application
tag_film,Film
tag_music,Music
----
.Post_1.csv
----
ID,User,Title,Content,Tags
post_id_1,peter_id,Peter's Post,This is peter's post content,tag_book|tag_film
post_id_2,nick_id,Nick's Post,No content,tag_book|tag_music|tag_app
----
