doc/security.adoc, before:

= Security in Hexya
Author Nicolas Piganeau
:prewrap!:
:toc:
:sectnums:

== Introduction

Security is implemented in Hexya at the ORM level to limit the risks of
inappropriate privilege elevation.

=== Groups
It is based on the concept of __group__:

- Permissions are granted or denied to groups
- Groups can inherit from other groups and get access to these groups
permissions.
- A user can belong to one or several groups, and thus inherit from the
permissions of the groups.

=== Mechanisms

Permissions are given to groups by three distinct mechanisms:

Method Execution Control::
Model methods can be executed only by members of given groups. This includes
CRUD methods.

Field Access Control::
Fields in models can be given `Read` and/or `Write` permissions to specific
groups to fine tune their access.

Record Rules::
Grant permissions (`Read`, `Write`, `Unlink`) on some records of a model only

=== Permissions

There are four permissions defined in the `security` package.

[source,go]
----
type Permission uint8

const (
    Read = 1 << Permission(iota)
    Write
    Unlink
    All = Read | Write | Unlink
)
----

They are used when defining Record Rules or Field Access Controls.

== Method Execution Control (MEC)

=== Rationale

Unlike other frameworks, Hexya does not enforce access control lists to its
objects, but instead control execution of model methods. While this system
still enables mocking ACLs by controlling the execution of CRUD methods, it is
much more powerful as it allows to give access to a model depending on the
context.

For example, suppose that we have a group of salesmen and a group of stock
pickers. In normal operation, salesmen deal with sale orders and pickers deal
with picking lists and we do not want them to have access to the other's
objects. However, when a picker has finished picking an order and shipped it,
we want to update the sale order to the `Shipped` state:

 - With classical ACLs, we would need to grant the pickers the permission to
write sale orders (or at least its `State` field) or `sudo` the operation
which leads to potential security risk.
 - With MEC, we can define a specific method on sale orders (`SetToShipped()`)
that only updates the status of the sale order to `Shipped` and we
will grant execution permission on this method to stock pickers.
+
`SetToShipped()` will be allowed to update the sale order without `sudo`
because we will have allowed execution on the `Write()` method to stock pickers
only when called from `SetToShipped()`.

=== Defining Method Execution Permissions

By default, only members of `security.AdminGroup` are allowed to execute a
method. Other groups should be manually added to allowed groups.

`*(*Method) AllowGroup(group *security.Group, callers ...*Method) *Method*`::
Grant the execution permission on the method to the given group. If callers
are defined, then the permission is granted only when this method is called
from one of the callers, otherwise it is granted whatever the caller.

`*(*Method) RevokeGroup(group *security.Group) *Method*`::
Revoke the execution permission on the method to the given group if it has been
given previously, otherwise does nothing. This methods revokes all permissions,
whatever the caller.

NOTE: These methods return a pointer to the receiver so that they can be
chained

[source,go]
----
h.Users().Methods().SayHello().DeclareMethod(
    "SayHello returns Hello",
    func(rs h.UsersSet) {
        return "Hello"
    }).
    AllowGroup(sale.GroupSalesman).
    AllowGroup(stock.GroupPicker, h.Users().Methods().Create())
    // Pickers can say hello only from the 'Create' method
----

`*(*MethodCollection) AllowAllToGroup(group *security.Group)*`::
This is a helper method to grant access to all methods of a model at once:

[source,go]
h.Users().Methods().AllowAllToGroup(GroupERPManager)

`*(*MethodCollection) RevokeAllFromGroup(group *security.Group)*`::
Revokes permissions on all methods given by AllowAllToGroup.
It simply removes the group from the groups allowed on every method, but does
not change any specific permission granted on a per method basis.

== Field Access Control (FAC)

=== Rationale

While MEC is the main security mechanism used in Hexya, it is sometimes necessary
to limit read or write access for some users to some fields. This is
particularly true in the user interface.

This is done through Field Access Control. The following rules apply:

- If a user without `Read` permission on a field retrieve a record, the value of
the field will be replaced by its Go zero value.
- If a user without `Write` permission on a field writes a record, the value of
the field will not be updated.
- Clients *should* make this behaviour explicit in their UI by removing non
readable fields and marking as read only fields without `Write` permission.

=== Defining Field Access Permissions

Two permissions are applicable to fields: `security.Read` and
`security.Write`.

By default, `security.GroupEveryone` is granted `security.Read` and
`security.Write` permissions on all fields.

Field permissions can be modified with the following methods:

`*(*Field) GrantAccess(group *security.Group, perm security.Permission) *Field*`::
Grant the given `perm` to the given `group` on this field.

`*(*Field) RevokeAccess(group *security.Group, perm security.Permission) *Field*`::
Revoke the given `perm` to the given `group` on this field if it has been
granted previously, otherwise does nothing.

NOTE: These methods return a pointer to the receiver so that they can be
chained.

[source,go]
salesManager := security.Registry.GetGroup("sale_manager")
h.Partner().Fields().Phone().
    RevokeAccess(security.GroupEveryOne, security.Read).
    AllowAccess(salesManager, security.Read)

== Record Rules (RR)

=== Definition
Record Rules allow to grant or deny a group some permissions on a selection of
records. This could be the case for example to allow a salesman only to see his
own sales.

A Record Rule is a struct with the following definition, in the models package:

[source,go]
----
type RecordRule struct {
    Name      string
    Global    bool
    Group     *Group
    Condition *models.Condition
    Perms     Permission
}
----

If the `Global` field of a `RecordRule` is set, then the rule applies to all
groups and the `Group` field is ignored. The `Condition` fields is the
filter to apply on the model to retrieve the records. `Perms` define on which
operation the rule will be called. For example, if `security.Read` is set then
the rule will be applied only on reading operations. Condition value may be
functions just like any other Condition. This may be particularly useful to
get the current user.

=== Adding or removing Record Rules

Record Rules are added or removed from the Record Rules Registry with the
following functions:

`*(*Model) AddRecordRule(rule *RecordRule)*`::
Register the given `RecordRule` to the registry for the given `model`. If the
rule's `Name` already exists, then the rule is overwritten.

[source,go]
----
salesman := security.Registry.GetGroup("sale_user")

func getUserID(rs h.PartnerSet) interface{} {
    return rs.Env().Uid()
}

cond := q.Partner().UserFilteredOn(h.User().ID().EqualsFunc(getUserID))

rule := models.RecordRule {
    Name:      "salesman_own_partner",
    Group:     salesman,
    Condition: cond,
    Perms:     security.All,
}
h.Partner().AddRecordRule(&rule)
----

`*(*Model) RemoveRecordRule(name string)*`::
Removes the Record Rule with the given `name` from the rule registry of the
given `model`.

[source,go]
h.Partner().RemoveRecordRule("salesman_own_partner")

=== Record Rules combination

Global rules and group rules (rules restricted to specific groups versus groups
applying to all users) are used quite differently:

* Global rules are subtractive, they must all be matched for a record to be
accessible
* Group rules are additive, if any of them matches (and all global rules match)
then the record is accessible

This means the first group rule restricts access, but any further group rule
expands it, while global rules can only ever restrict access (or have no
effect).

Commit message:

Execution permission is now allowed by default, except CRUD

doc/security.adoc, after:

= Security in Hexya
Author Nicolas Piganeau
:prewrap!:
:toc:
:sectnums:

== Introduction

Security is implemented in Hexya at the ORM level to limit the risks of
inappropriate privilege elevation.

=== Groups
It is based on the concept of __group__:

- Permissions are granted or denied to groups
- Groups can inherit from other groups and get access to these groups
permissions.
- A user can belong to one or several groups, and thus inherit from the
permissions of the groups.

=== Mechanisms

Permissions are given to groups by three distinct mechanisms:

Method Execution Control::
Model methods can be executed only by members of given groups. This includes
CRUD methods.

Field Access Control::
Fields in models can be given `Read` and/or `Write` permissions to specific
groups to fine tune their access.

Record Rules::
Grant permissions (`Read`, `Write`, `Unlink`) on some records of a model only

=== Permissions

There are four permissions defined in the `security` package.

[source,go]
----
type Permission uint8

const (
    Read = 1 << Permission(iota)
    Write
    Unlink
    All = Read | Write | Unlink
)
----

They are used when defining Record Rules or Field Access Controls.

== Method Execution Control (MEC)

=== Rationale

Unlike other frameworks, Hexya does not enforce access control lists to its
objects, but instead control execution of model methods. While this system
still enables mocking ACLs by controlling the execution of CRUD methods, it is
much more powerful as it allows to give access to a model depending on the
context.

For example, suppose that we have a group of salesmen and a group of stock
pickers. In normal operation, salesmen deal with sale orders and pickers deal
with picking lists and we do not want them to have access to the other's
objects. However, when a picker has finished picking an order and shipped it,
we want to update the sale order to the `Shipped` state:

 - With classical ACLs, we would need to grant the pickers the permission to
write sale orders (or at least its `State` field) or `sudo` the operation
which leads to potential security risk.
 - With MEC, we can define a specific method on sale orders (`SetToShipped()`)
that only updates the status of the sale order to `Shipped` and we
will grant execution permission on this method to stock pickers.
+
`SetToShipped()` will be allowed to update the sale order without `sudo`
because we will have allowed execution on the `Write()` method to stock pickers
only when called from `SetToShipped()`.

=== Defining Method Execution Permissions

By default:

- CRUD methods can only be executed by members of `security.AdminGroup`.
Other groups should be manually added to allowed groups.
- Other methods can be executed by anybody.
To restrict execution, you should first revoke execution permission from `security.GroupEveryone` before granting permission to the desired groups.

Two methods control execution permissions:

`*(*Method) AllowGroup(group *security.Group, callers ...*Method) *Method*`::
Grant the execution permission on the method to the given group. If callers
are defined, then the permission is granted only when this method is called
from one of the callers, otherwise it is granted whatever the caller.

`*(*Method) RevokeGroup(group *security.Group) *Method*`::
Revoke the execution permission on the method to the given group if it has been
given previously, otherwise does nothing. This methods revokes all permissions,
whatever the caller.

NOTE: These methods return a pointer to the receiver so that they can be
chained

[source,go]
----
h.Users().Methods().SayHello().DeclareMethod(
    "SayHello returns Hello",
    func(rs h.UsersSet) {
        return "Hello"
    }).
    RevokeGroup(security.GroupEveryone).
    AllowGroup(sale.GroupSalesman).
    AllowGroup(stock.GroupPicker, h.Users().Methods().Create())
    // Pickers can say hello only from the 'Create' method
----

`*(*MethodCollection) AllowAllToGroup(group *security.Group)*`::
This is a helper method to grant access to all CRUD methods of a model at once:

[source,go]
h.Users().Methods().AllowAllToGroup(GroupERPManager)

`*(*MethodCollection) RevokeAllFromGroup(group *security.Group)*`::
Revokes permissions on all CRUD methods for the given group.

== Field Access Control (FAC)

=== Rationale

While MEC is the main security mechanism used in Hexya, it is sometimes necessary
to limit read or write access for some users to some fields. This is
particularly true in the user interface.

This is done through Field Access Control. The following rules apply:

- If a user without `Read` permission on a field retrieve a record, the value of
the field will be replaced by its Go zero value.
- If a user without `Write` permission on a field writes a record, the value of
the field will not be updated.
- Clients *should* make this behaviour explicit in their UI by removing non
readable fields and marking as read only fields without `Write` permission.

=== Defining Field Access Permissions

Two permissions are applicable to fields: `security.Read` and
`security.Write`.

By default, `security.GroupEveryone` is granted `security.Read` and
`security.Write` permissions on all fields.

Field permissions can be modified with the following methods:

`*(*Field) GrantAccess(group *security.Group, perm security.Permission) *Field*`::
Grant the given `perm` to the given `group` on this field.

`*(*Field) RevokeAccess(group *security.Group, perm security.Permission) *Field*`::
Revoke the given `perm` to the given `group` on this field if it has been
granted previously, otherwise does nothing.

NOTE: These methods return a pointer to the receiver so that they can be
chained.

[source,go]
salesManager := security.Registry.GetGroup("sale_manager")
h.Partner().Fields().Phone().
    RevokeAccess(security.GroupEveryOne, security.Read).
    AllowAccess(salesManager, security.Read)

== Record Rules (RR)

=== Definition
Record Rules allow to grant or deny a group some permissions on a selection of
records. This could be the case for example to allow a salesman only to see his
own sales.

A Record Rule is a struct with the following definition, in the models package:

[source,go]
----
type RecordRule struct {
    Name      string
    Global    bool
    Group     *Group
    Condition *models.Condition
    Perms     Permission
}
----

If the `Global` field of a `RecordRule` is set, then the rule applies to all
groups and the `Group` field is ignored. The `Condition` fields is the
filter to apply on the model to retrieve the records. `Perms` define on which
operation the rule will be called. For example, if `security.Read` is set then
the rule will be applied only on reading operations. Condition value may be
functions just like any other Condition. This may be particularly useful to
get the current user.

=== Adding or removing Record Rules

Record Rules are added or removed from the Record Rules Registry with the
following functions:

`*(*Model) AddRecordRule(rule *RecordRule)*`::
Register the given `RecordRule` to the registry for the given `model`. If the
rule's `Name` already exists, then the rule is overwritten.

[source,go]
----
salesman := security.Registry.GetGroup("sale_user")

func getUserID(rs h.PartnerSet) interface{} {
    return rs.Env().Uid()
}

cond := q.Partner().UserFilteredOn(h.User().ID().EqualsFunc(getUserID))

rule := models.RecordRule {
    Name:      "salesman_own_partner",
    Group:     salesman,
    Condition: cond,
    Perms:     security.All,
}
h.Partner().AddRecordRule(&rule)
----

`*(*Model) RemoveRecordRule(name string)*`::
Removes the Record Rule with the given `name` from the rule registry of the
given `model`.

[source,go]
h.Partner().RemoveRecordRule("salesman_own_partner")

=== Record Rules combination

Global rules and group rules (rules restricted to specific groups versus groups
applying to all users) are used quite differently:

* Global rules are subtractive, they must all be matched for a record to be
accessible
* Group rules are additive, if any of them matches (and all global rules match)
then the record is accessible

This means the first group rule restricts access, but any further group rule
expands it, while global rules can only ever restrict access (or have no
effect).
